(1) This man became the head of the Peabody Museum of National History after a donation of
$100,000 from his uncle George Peabody. This person named several genera, including the (+)
Diplodocus, Stegosaurus, and the Triceratops. This man had an intense rivalry with Edward Drinker
Cope, with whom he competed against during an event sometimes referred to as the (*) "Great
Dinosaur Rush." For the points, name this prominent paleontologist at Yale College who engaged in the Bone
Wars.
ANSWER: Othniel Marsh (or Othniel Charles Marsh)
***
(2) All Thompson seedless grapes in California vineyards are sprayed with one of these
compounds at fruit set in order to increase grape size. Ent-kaurenes are diterpenoids that serve as a
precursor to these (+) hormones. These proteins were discovered in 1926 by Eichi Kurosawa by
studying rice that was afflicted with (*) foolish seedling disease. For the points, name this class of plant
hormones that, while they are not auxins, cause stems to elongate as well as contribute to seed germination
and growth.
ANSWER: Gibberellins (accept GAs, prompt on "Diterpenoids" before mention)
***
(3) Casuarina bark was used in attempts to treat this disease. Though this disease, whose name
means "trembling," stopped being spread in the 1960s, the last deaths only occurred in the early
2000s given its long incubation period. This disease most affected women and children due to local (+) funerary practices. This illness, once common among the Fore people, began with a case of
sporadic (*) Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease. For the points, name this prion disease spread in Papua New Guinea via cannibalism of the brain.
ANSWER: Kuru (prompt on “Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy” or “TSE” or “Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease” or “CJD” before mentioned)
***
(4) The Held–Hou Model envisioned these phenomena in the absence of turbulence, and their
existence was confirmed by radiosondes. These phenomena interact with similar ones named for
William Ferrel to create a (+) windless, arid area known as the horse latitudes around 30 degrees
from the Equator. These phenomena rise in the intertropical convergence zone, and contribute to the
(*) subtropical jet. For the points, name these circulation patterns which involve the rising of air from the
Equator.
ANSWER: Hadley Cells (or Hadley Circulation)
***
(5) Parietal cells lining this organ secrete intrinsic factor, a protein crucial for the absorption of
vitamin B12. The upper, dome-shaped portion of this organ is called the (+) fundus, and it usually
appears as an air-filled space on X-ray images. Peptic ulcers affecting the wall of this organ may be
caused by (*) Helicobacter pylori infection and their perforation is a life-threatening condition. For the
points, name this muscular sac which produces hydrochloric acid and digests food.
ANSWER: Stomach
***
(6) An AJHG journal entry analyzed MSY data to find that it would be "a good fit to the present
data" if this individual inhabited "central-northwest Africa". The sixty million base pairs of a
namesake entity belonging to this being has a lower (+) mutation rate than a type of a DNA used to
study this being's counterpart. The extinction of paternal lineages can affect the holder of this title of
which Mitochondrial Eve is the (*) matrilineal counterpart. For the points, give this term for the most
recent common male ancestor from whom all living humans are descended.
ANSWER: Y-chromosomal (or chromosome) Adam (or Y-chromosomal most recent common
ancestor; accept answers indicating most recent common male ancestor of humans before "recent" is
read and prompt after; prompt on "Adam")
***
(7) The use of this compound to preserve wheat resulted in a mass poisoning in rural Iraq in 1971.
This compound was released by the Showa Denko company in Niigata, which resulted in mass ataxia.
A Chisso Corporation (+) wastewater disposal program resulted in the release of this compound into
local food sources, causing Minamata disease. This byproduct of ethanal production dangerously
bioaccumulates in aquatic ecosystems at the top of the (*) food chain. For the points, name this extremely
toxic ionic compound, the primary source of mercury poisoning in humans.
ANSWER: Methylmercury (do not accept or prompt on "mercury")
***
(8) These proteins contain a central "selectivity filter" and can be blocked by tetrodotoxins
derived from puffer fish. Examples of these proteins include the glutamate-binding (+) NMDA and
AMPA receptors that help mediate neuroplasticity. One of these proteins called Na-sub-x can sense
the amount of sodium in the blood. These proteins come in (*) "ligand-gated" and "voltage-gated"
subtypes, which open and close to depolarize neurons during an action potential. For the points, name these
proteins that allow charged atoms like potassium to cross the cell membrane.
ANSWER: Ion Channels (accept specific subtypes; accept Sodium Channels; accept Potassium Channels;
accept Calcium Channels; accept Ionotropic receptors; prompt on "Channels" or "Membrane Proteins" or
"Transmembrane Proteins" or "Receptors")
***
(9) This phenomenon is especially present on Jan Mayen, a Norwegian Island which benefits from the Gulf Stream. This phenomenon, a macroscopic manifestation of thermal inertia, explains why the (+) autumnal equinox is typically warmer than the vernal equinox and why San Francisco's recordhigh temperature was recorded in September. (*) For the points, name this phenomenon where the onset of the hottest and coldest temperatures in a given year is delayed beyond June or January.
ANSWER: Seasonal Lag (accept clear-knowledge equivalents)
***
(10) In 2012, Retter and Heller published an article titled for reviving the idea of these objects as
“small bangs”. These objects were first proposed by Igor Nivokov in 1964, called the maximally
extended version of the (+) Schwarzschild metric. Supermassive objects at the centers of galaxies are
thought to create these other objects according to the Einstein-Rosen bridge. (*) For the points, name
these regions of spacetime where nothing can enter, but matter and light can escape, causing Stephen
Hawking to consider them the opposite of black holes.
ANSWER: White Holes
